Filtered NYC OpenData for Agency Name (Department of Housing Presrvation and Development), created date (between 08/01/2015 12am and 08/31/2015 12PM) and Incident Zip (11221).

Created an Excel file with data in place.  Think I'll look at the kind of complaint, the way it was resolved, and the descriptor of the problem.

I made a pivot table with the Complaint Type as the column and the Resolution Description as the row.  There were 479 complaints logged in the month of August in total, including complaints which are still open.  The most common complaint by far is of "Unsanitary Condition".  

Dragging "Resolution Description" into the Column category makes it easier to see the totals for each category. 

99 of the 479 complaints are of Unsanitary Conditions.  That seems quite high to me.  
In 35 of those instances, the Dept was "not able to gain access to inspect the following conditions" -- and so they closed the complaint!
In 40 of those instances, the Dept inspected the conditions and decided not to issue a violation, then closed the complaint.
In 15 of those instances, the Dept inspected it and issued a violation.

The other most common categories of complaints were Heat/Hot Water (60), Door/Window (51), Paint/Plaster (49), and Plumbing (46).
I think probably the most newsy of these are Unsanitary; Heat/Hot Water; and Paint/Plaster.  

Filtering under "Column Labels", I find that 25 of the 60 Heat/Hot Water complaints were actually duplicates -- someone had already reported it.

Paint/Plaster, Dept not able to gain access to inspect -- and closed the complaint -- on 10 of the instances.
Paint/Plaster -- Dept inspected and issued a violation in 19 of the 49 instances.
Paint/Plaster -- Dept inspected and issued no violations in 13 of the 49 instances.

For Plumbing -- Dept not able to gain access, and closed complaints -- 27 out of the 46 times.
Plumbing -- Dept inspected and issued violations in 12 of the times.
Plumbing -- dDept inspected and issued no violations on 7 of the instances.

I imagine that they probably aren't able to get access on so many of the Plumbing and Unsanitary Conditions cases because they're occurring inside someone's apartment, and maintenance probably doesn't have the right to just walk in if no one opens up.

Now I'm running another pivot table, with Street Name and Address in the rows and the complaint type in the columns.  
Forgot to note earlier that this is restricted to 11221 zip code, which encompasses most of Bushwick and part of Bed-Stuy.  

The idea behind this pivot table is to figure out what complexes and what addresses are repeat offenders.  

Some repeat offenders: 441 Wilson (with 25 complaints); 920 Madison with 22; and 490A Jefferson with 22.

So I want to check out how these outliers break down.

[Also want to add a note about the categories I looked at earlier.  The predominance of "unsanitary conditions" and "plumbing" complaints sound to me like there might be a lot of old people who for reasons of mental or physical health are living in nasty conditions in their apartments.  Is it that they're hoarding?  I've wanted to do a story on that topic for a while, and this might be a good entry point into it.  I could cross-check the addresses here with data on the inhabitants to find out things like their age, health insurance, even income based on the neighborhood and block they live on.]

Making a pivot table with address and complaint type in the rows, and values in the columns, I didn't find much in the way of outliers for 441 Wilson or 920 Madison.  490A Jefferson was a little different -- 6 "general" complaints, 8 for heat/hot water and 6 for unsanitary conditions, last August.
Nothing so shocking as to command a story.  What I have, still, is that 99 of the 479 complaints are for unsanitary conditions -- that seems worth exploring to me.
Now I'm going to cross-reference the Unsanitary Conditions complaint type with the Descriptor, putting them both in the rows and the Status in the Columns.  

What this shows: of the 99 unsanitary conditions complaints, all but 1 were closed that month.  37 of them were for Pests.  27 were for Mold.  30 were for Garbage/Recycling Storage.  and 4 were for Sewage.
